Nays2DH is a computational model for simulating horizontal two-dimensional (2D) flow, sediment transport, morphological changes of bed and banks in rivers. Although iRIC has provided several 2D solvers, such as Nays2D, Morpho2D, FaSTMECH, etc., we believe that the users sometimes may confuse which solver is preferable for their own case. Therefore, we decided to combine Nays2D and Morpho2D to provide a more powerful and user friendly tool for iRIC users, we called it Nays2DH.
Nays2D, developed by Dr. Yasuyuki Shimizu in Hokkaido University in Japan, is a plane 2D solver for calculating flow, sediment transport, bed evolution and bank erosion in rivers. By joining many developers to Nays2D project, several functions, for instance, river confluence model, mixture grain size model and Hot start function, have been added. Nays2D is attached to iRIC and RIC-Nays which is a predecessor project of iRIC. Nays2D includes several options for simulating river flows such as an unsteady vortex generation in open channel flows and river morphodynamics. River morphodynamics includes the initiation and develop-ment of free bars in rivers and the interaction between free bars and forced bars in meandering channels. In addition, Nays2D has been applied to several practical applications: bed evolution process in rivers affected by trees and vegetation, calculation and prediction of inundation on floodplains, sedimentation in river con-fluences, analysis of bank erosion and flood disasters.
  Morpho2D developed by Dr. Hiroshi Takebayashi is a solver to simulate the two-dimensional morphody-namical changes in rivers. Initially, it was attached in the RIC-Nays as ‘Mixture grain size model’. Since iRIC released version 1, this solver has been reformed as Morpho2D. Morpho2D includes several possibilities for simulating the morphological changes of river bed with uniform and mixture sediment, and simulating the development of free bars with sorting of sediment particles on the river bed. Morpho2D has also been applied to several real world applications in river engineering, such as analysis the bed evolution under vegetation effects, sediment transport and bed evolution with the non-erosional bed (e.g. bedrocks and fixed beds). 
 Both solvers have their own advantages, but they include a common part as they are both 2D models. We developed a new and more powerful solver by combining the functions of these models. In this version, the user can choose a sediment transport model based on the functions which were implemented in the both solvers. The user also can combine a river confluence model, bank erosion model, bedload-suspended load simulation in mixture sediment, bedload layer model and fixed bed model, and also able to change the sedi-ment supply rate from the upstream end. However, there are some uncoupled parts in the current version. The combination of the functions explained above may not work in some points, and the seepage flow model used in Morpho2D is not implemented. These points will be improved in the near future.

Nays2DH development team
Yasuyuki SHIMIZU, Hokkaido University, Japan.
Hiroshi TAKEBAYASHI, Kyoto University, Japan
