--RRIについて
RRIはRain Runoff Inundationモデルの略で、流域に降った雨が河川に集まる現象、洪水が河川を流下する現象、河川を流れる水が氾濫原に溢れる現象を流域一体で予測するモデルです。 
2016年5月からは、RRIモデルを ICHARMホームページ でも公開し、誰でも無料で入手できます。

--RRI on iRICについて
RRI on iRICは、 「降雨流出氾濫（RRI）モデルプログラム利用規約 」、第1章ⅱ、ⅲの項目に基づき改変公開しているものです。 そのため、RRI on iRIC(以降、本プログラム)による計算結果の公表、頒布する場合は下記内容を明記してください。
使用しているRRIモデルのバージョンは1.4.2.2です。

--------
・本プログラムの原著作物（以降、RRI）の著作権は、土木研究所（ICHARM）にあります
・本プログラムは、RRIの二次著作物にあたります。
・計算結果は、RRIを改変したプログラム（本プログラム）によるものです
--------

Model Structure Overview
Rainfall-Runoff-Inundation (RRI) model is a two-dimensional model capable of simulating rainfall-runoff and flood inundation simultaneously (Sayama et al., 2012). The model deals with slopes and river channels separately. At a grid cell in which a river channel is located, the model assumes that both slope and river are positioned within the same grid cell. The channel is discretized as a single line along its centerline of the overlying slope grid cell. The flow on the slope grid cells is calculated with the 2D diffusive wave model, while the channel flow is calculated with the 1D diffusive wave model. For better representations of rainfall-runoff-inundation processes, the RRI model simulates also lateral subsurface flow, vertical infiltration flow and surface flow. The lateral subsurface flow, which is typically more important in mountainous regions, is treated in terms of the discharge-hydraulic gradient relationship, which takes into account both saturated subsurface and surface flows. On the other hand, the vertical infiltration flow is estimated by using the Green-Ampt model. The flow interaction between the river channel and slope is estimated based on different overflowing formulae, depending on water-level and levee-height conditions.


Model Features
1.Rainfall-runoff and inundation simultaneously with diffusion wave approximations.
2.Subsurface flow (lateral subsurface and vertical infiltration) is simulated for physical representations of rainfall-runoff processes.
3.One-dimensional diffusive wave river routing and its interaction with the slope model.

2023.01.31
・iRIC ver.4対応版のRRI on iRIC ver.1.4.2.230131リリース