“NaysCUBE” is an analytical solver for calculation of unsteady three-dimensional open channel flows, riverbed deformations and driftwood behavior using boundary-fitted coordinates within generalized curvilinear coordinates. The solver's prototype, which only included clear water flow model with a linear RANS model, was initially developed by Associate Professor Ichiro Kimura of Hokkaido University in the 2000s (At that time, he was a lecturer in Yokkaichi University.)
After then, a lot of improvements and modifications have been made, such as, inclusion of bed morphology with bedload transport model, introduction of a second order non-linear k-epsilon turbulence model, adoptions of several kinds of boundary conditions (B.C.), such as, periodic B.C., reversed periodic B.C., symmetric B.C., etc.), incorporation of third order spatial difference scheme (TVD-MUSCL), consideration of emerged and submerged vegetation model, consideration of emerged and submerged obstacles, etc. All those modifications and new components have been developed by Ichiro Kimura of Hokkaido University.
This model has an established reputation for calculation of unsteady three-dimensional open channel flows accompanied with free surface oscillation and bed deformation. The basic model for NaysCUBE has been shown as a powerful tool for analyzing flows around river structures, such as, submerged / un-submerged spur dikes, bridge piers, weirs, etc. The model also has applied to open channel flows with secondary currents of the first kind, which is generated at a river bend with a centrifugal force, and secondary currents of the second kind, which is generated even in a straight channel due to turbulence an-isotropy.
Since NaysCUBE is a fully three-dimensional model, it generally requires more CPU time than two-dimensional models. However, URANS approach, which can employ much coarser computational grid than LES, enables practical and economic three-dimensional computations. Although this engine is basically not suitable for computations of large reach of rivers, it will become a powerful tool to analyze detailed structures of flows and bed morphology with local or segment scales in rivers.
